[IMP] productivity/knowledge: Articles editing updated (#11939)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/knowledge/articles_editing.rst

============================
Article creation and editing
============================

Article creation
================

There are three possibilities to create an article in Knowledge: by clicking :guilabel:`New`,
through the sidebar tree, and by browsing a preconfigured template. The sidebar tree has :ref:`four
categories <management/structure>`: :guilabel:`Private, Shared, Workspace`, and
:guilabel:`Favorites`. Templates have preconfigured content and are organized between the following
categories: :guilabel:`Productivity, Sales, Marketing, Company Organization`, and

> :guilabel:`Product Management`.

Reviewer: I would remove this entire section: there's a lot of unrelevant info IMO (e.g. about categories: these are mentioned on another doc page + templates: I think these should be mentioned elsewhere: to be decided)

The rest is already explained below so not necessary here IMO.

> Creating an article

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating an article from scratch
```

-------------------

> Click :guilabel:`New` in the top right corner or hover over the :guilabel:`Private` or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an article from scratch, click :guilabel:`New` in the top right corner or hover over the :guilabel:`Private` or
```

:guilabel:`Workspace` category in the sidebar tree, then click the :icon:`fa-plus`

> :guilabel:`(plus)` icon. Use the following optional column to create views or generate content, or
> simply start writing the header and the content from scratch:

Reviewer: (not sure what you meant by "column" and I think we can simplify this to make it more understandable)

```suggestion
:guilabel:`(plus)` icon. You can then start typing text or select one of the suggested options:
```

===============

Click the desired article in the sidebar tree, then edit the content by using the
:ref:`text editor toolbar <knowledge/text-editor>`, adding a :ref:`cover picture <knowledge/cover>`
with an :ref:`emoji <knowledge/emoji>`, and typing :ref:`commands <knowledge/commands>`.

.. _knowledge/text-editor:

Odoo rich-text editor
---------------------

To edit a word, sentence, or paragraph, select or double-click it to display the text editor
toolbar, and apply the desired :doc:`formatting options </applications/essentials/text_editor>`.

.. _knowledge/cover:

Cover pictures
--------------

To add a cover picture, click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(ellipsis)` icon, then
:guilabel:`Add Cover`. The following options enable selecting and inserting pictures from different
sources:

- Search the :doc:`Unsplash </applications/general/integrations/unsplash>` database to find a
  suitable picture. If your database and your **Unsplash** account are associated, the cover
  picture is automatically selected based on the article's name.
- :guilabel:`Add URL`: copy-paste the **image address**.
- :guilabel:`Upload an image`: upload the file into the image library.

> To manage the cover picture, hover the mouse over it, and select the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage the cover picture, hover the mouse over it, and select the desired option:
```
(since it's more likely you'll just select one option)

- :guilabel:`Replace Cover` and search from the database, library, or add a different URL.

- :guilabel:`Reposition` and adjust the picture before clicking :guilabel:`Save Position`.

- :guilabel:`Remove Cover`.

.. _knowledge/emoji:

> Emojis

Reviewer: Should we rename this so it better reflects the fact that it's *just* for the header and article name and not "regular" emojis in the text?

------

To add an emoji to the article's name and header:

- Click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(ellipsis)` icon, then :guilabel:`Add Icon` to
  generate a random emoji. Click the emoji to select a different one.

- Alternatively, click the :icon:`fa-file-text-o` :guilabel:`(page)` icon next to the article's
  name in the sidebar or the top bar and select the desired emoji.

.. _knowledge/commands:

> Commands

Reviewer: I would move the commands under the text editor section as I think it's more important than cover pictures and emojis).

--------

> Type `/` to use a command and open the **powerbox**. Some :ref:`commands <essentials/commands>`,
> such as `/Media` or `/Article`, are common to all apps, but the following ones are exclusive to the
> Knowledge app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type `/` to open the :ref:`powerbox <essentials/commands>` and use a command. The following commands are exclusive to the Knowledge app:
```

====================================

> Article creation and content editing

Author: @auva-odoo When I started updating "Articles management", I put an anchor to "Articles editing". I'd like to discuss all this as well.

picture, then click :guilabel:`Save Position`.

To remove the cover picture, hover above it and click :guilabel:`Remove Cover`.

.. note::
   If your database and your **Unsplash** account are associated, the cover picture is
   automatically selected based on the title of the article. To associate **Unsplash** with your
   database, please refer to :doc:`/applications/general/integrations/unsplash`.

Emojis
------

There are two possibilities to add an emoji to your article:

- Through the ellipsis icon:

#. Click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(ellipsis)` icon.
#. Click :guilabel:`Add Icon` to generate a random emoji that appears near the title of the article.
#. To change the emoji, click :guilabel:`Remove Icon`, then :guilabel:`Add Icon` again.

- Through the emoji search bar:

#. Click the :icon:`fa-file-text-o` :guilabel:`(page)` icon next to the title of the article to
   open the emoji search bar.
#. Use the search bar or scroll down to find the desired emoji.
#. Select the desired emoji, which will appear close to the title of the article.
#. (Optional) Click the selected emoji to open the emoji search bar, and select a different

>    one.

Author: Top suggestion!

.. note::
   - Adding an emoji through the ellipsis icon requires repeating the operation as many times as
     needed to find the suitable emoji for the article. However, after clicking
     :guilabel:`Add Icon`, click on the generated emoji to open the emoji search bar and proceed as
     in the second option.
   - The system also displays the emoji before the corresponding article in the sidebar tree.
   - Click on the emoji in the sidebar tree to change it without opening the related article.

.. _knowledge/powerbox:

Commands
--------

Type `/` to use a command and open the **powerbox**. Some commands, such as `/Media` or
`/Article`, are common to all apps, but others are specific to the :guilabel:`Knowledge` app and
cannot be found or used in any other app. To know more about the list of commands, please refer to
:doc:`../../../applications/essentials/text_editor`.

> Knowledge integration

Author: I'll put the section "Retrieve Knowledge articles" in the article "Articles management"

=====================

:guilabel:`Knowledge` articles and their content can be retrieved from certain apps. Similarly,
content views from some apps can be embedded into Knowledge articles.

Retrieve Knowledge articles
---------------------------

Depending on the app, the :icon:`fa-bookmark` :guilabel:`(Knowledge)` icon is visible at the top
right corner of the interface. Click the icon to search for an article.

.. example::
   After receiving an opportunity in :guilabel:`CRM` through the contact form of the website, the
   message automatically appears in the :guilabel:`Internal Notes` of the opportunity. Click the
   :icon:`fa-bookmark` :guilabel:`(Knowledge)` icon to open the Knowledge search view. Type the
   name of the article before clicking on it to display it in :guilabel:`CRM`.

Embed content views
-------------------

> To embed content views from other apps, go to the desired app and do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To insert a view from another app, go to the desired app and follow these steps:
```
(+ to avoid unnecessary "do"?)

#. Select the preferred view.

> #. Click the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`(cog)` icon at the top left corner.
> #. Click :menuselection:`Knowledge --> Insert view in article`.

Reviewer: We can group these two:
```suggestion
#. Click the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`(cog)` icon and click :menuselection:`Knowledge --> Insert view in article`.
```

> #. Select the article in which you want to embed the view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select the article in which you want to insert the view.
```

.. note::

>    - Users who do not have access to the view will not be able to access it in
>      :guilabel:`Knowledge` even though they have access to the article containing the view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Users without view access cannot see the content in Knowledge, even if they have access to the article containing the view.
```
- unnecessary future tense
- to reduce repetitions slightly (access)
- no guilabel for app names

>    - In some apps, certain views are not available.

Reviewer: I would get rid of this (standard Odoo) and add something about this option instead:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a03936cb-7699-46d5-8724-4720fade4bfe)

         * - Command
           - Use
         * - :guilabel:`Index`
           - Show nested articles: display the child pages of the parent article.
         * - :guilabel:`Item Kanban`
           - Insert a Kanban view and create items.
         * - :guilabel:`Item Cards`
           - Insert a Card view and create items.
         * - :guilabel:`Item List`
           - Insert a List view and create items.
         * - :guilabel:`Item Calendar`
           - Insert a Calendar view and create items.

Knowledge and Odoo apps

> =======================

Reviewer: I thought you were going to move this section to the "Articles management" page? 
I suggest maybe doing that in a separate PR so we can focus on article creation and editing in this one (and hopefully close it sooner). Let's discuss this!
